okay,
It's about time.
Now we start four loops Ghoshal file system.
Well,
we already learned for Loops earlier,
but now we are actually going to learn MAWR smaller and bigger at advanced four loops as
well.
I am going to actually include multiple scripts here.
It's not.
This lesson is not about just one script,
and we'll move on this lesson.
We are going to create simple accounting for loops.
Grip.
Ah,
you could use it,
their account counting by 1 200 or whichever the specified number of times.
We're going to create multiple files with different names.
If you want to create,
let's say,
10 files.
Are you going?
Going to do touch one touch to text three.
No,
right.
You wanted to create a script that will create multiple files and,
of course,
with multiple different names.
So that's what we're gonna cover next.
We're gonna cover multiple create multiple files with user input,
so use it will have to specify,
Ah,
it would be like,
Hey,
do you want to create a falls?
Yes.
And what's the name of the while?
There's how maney fuzz you want to create wanna create 10 files wouldn't be there.
Nice.
Then we have to create another script.
Like assigned write permissions to files will create another script assigned right.
Permission to files with total time it will take.
So this is I am actually going to cover five different script in this lesson.
And the reason I'm keep on focusing on four Loop is four.
Loop is one of the important statement for loop scripts that you will be using more often
than any other statement scripts.
Okay,
Without further ado,
let's log in to our links machine.
We have our length machine right here.
I'm gonna clear the screen real quick.
Um,
I'm gonna exit out,
and I'm gonna go again to my other one,
which is right here.
Clear the screen.
Who am I?
I have.
So this is my other session that was running.
I don't want to have two different sections open.
This will do nothing but to confuse you more.
Anyway,
I am in my home directory and I want to go into my profession script directory that I
created earlier.
I have a few scripts that I work on it earlier.
You probably have it too.
If you're following me exactly every lesson one by one.
Anyway,
let's clear the screen out.
The first thing I wanted to do is I want to create simple accounting script with for the
for loop.
So what it does,
let's first create the script and you will know exactly what I'm talking about.
Simple count again.
What do you have to do,
guys?
So now I am trying to save you time.
So I'm just kind of this author date.
See you fill that up yourself.
Ah,
description.
But please don't forget to do that.
I am skipping it because I don't want to waste any more time on this.
I won't get in straight into script.
All right,
so everything is defined.
Turnout for the I is just invariable in curly braces.
One dot dot That's a 20 and her.
Now what I'm saying is I want you to put all the counting from 1 to 20 into a variable
called I this stuff.
Is that what I'm doing?
So think off it.
You have ah,
a can.
And you're putting 20 numbers from 1 to 20 in that can.
So that's and that can name is I.
You could name it anything that can name is a or just even you could even name it can as
see and can.
So you could do that.
Now what do you want to do now?
So you already put those 20 numbers in a can,
Where you want to do,
I can.
It's a perfect example.
So do first is echo dollar.
So it is actually going to echo whatever is an inside of the container.
So I am actually boxing 20 numbers in a box.
And then once I did that,
then I want to open the box and read those numbers.
That's pretty much it.
And then I don't want to read all of them in one shot.
I want to read one number at a time.
It will read one number at a time,
but it will read it so fast that it will look like as if it's reading all in one shot.
So in order for me to verify that it is reading one of the time,
I'm gonna put a command inside called sleep.
One sleep on.
What is going to do is is actually gonna read one letter,
sleep for one second,
then read the second the third the fourth,
so I don't want to waste your time.
I'll just put here 10.
So we will just run the script for 10 seconds.
Will sleep for 12th.
Oops.
And right here is done.
So I hope you you understand this for I n put there's a container.
I put number fund through 10.
Then what do you want to do?
What's you have all the numbers in a box than do Read those numbers from for me,
please.
123456789 10.
Perfect.
But I want you to sleep like put a break in every number while you're reading it.
And that break is for only for one sec.
Okay.
Okay,
sir,
we will do that.
Perfect.
And what do you want to do?
Once I'm done,
then you're done.
Don't worry about it.
Okay.
All right.
Let's go into our script.
Modify the permissions.
Simple count.
Sorry.
And I guess ah mentioned earlier that you could use,
um,
numbering way to do the change mod or this way,
I prefer this.
First I used anyway,
uh,
permissions are done.
Now.
Let's run.
Take us at one to 34567 eight,
nine,
You're done.
See?
It's just that simple.
Now you're probably thinking,
Hey,
Imron,
what is the real life application for this type of script?
Okay,
Perfect sound.
You're probably perfect.
Questions.
Hurry.
You probably,
um,
installed a lot off,
Softwares and your A machine,
right?
If you are using windows,
you install software.
It goes through a visit.
If you're running Lennox crap,
then you installing something,
it goes through some kind of little busier.
But then you also noticed it gives you some kind of progress bar,
right?
That is where those people those developers,
put those progress bar by putting thes counting in there.
It does accounting,
it tells you.
Okay,
approximately is gonna take this much time.
And that's how it does.
Counting 12345 So that's what actually is,
um Why I have not put it in a real example,
because I want you to go and find out how you could put that in a regular everyday example
.
Now going to other scripts,
the four scripts that I have.
I'll show you exactly where I could put in other examples as well,
but not just in Ah,
installation wizard.
But in something else.
Second script now we're doing is we're going to create multiple pause right here.
He says create multiple files with different names.
By the way,
these scripts that I'm typing,
of course,
I do not remember all of them on top of my head.
I actually have them written in a note pad on another computer that is right sitting next
to me.
So I am not like you can say,
Oh,
him run is a genius.
He room where every script on on his head.
I don't I'm just like a regular person like you.
So I have this note pad open on another computer,
and I have that no pad Attash toe every lesson that you're gonna do.
So once you're gonna play that lesson or this lesson,
you will see an attachment dot text file,
elect you to open the text fall and then look at the text well,
and then created your script anyway,
So let's create a 2nd 1 and I'm gonna create their for multiple files.
So we I,
um,
create multiple files,
but different names,
stuccoed confusing,
create balls.
Simple.
Is that enter?
I didn't put in certain aren't you know what goes here?
So before I do that the best way to do is I just remember I Julie do that.
So I'll copy simple count,
which I need to be created just before that.
And I'm gonna name it a different one.
Create falls are to know the I said this.
We will have everything up there that we need.
Just remove this part.
Okay,
now four I I like I So I keep picking on you.
Could pick anything again.
En curly braces one through 10.
Okay,
so now you know,
again,
I'm putting 10 numbers in my box,
right?
So you know you know that.
Okay,
Now what do you want to do?
Do this time?
I wanted to create files and the file name should start with Imran.
Perfect.
And it should end with dollar high.
Nice.
So you see what I'm doing?
It is going to create 10 files,
and every file would have the name imran 100.1 imron dot to imron 0.0.3 and all the way to
in runda 10.
See how easy it has become to create multiple files.
Probably you would have to create 1000 files,
then creating it manually.
It's not productive at all.
So that's how we used before we commence and even moving forward.
So I'm gonna create 10 filed with the name Imron and then I want you to be done.
Um,
since I copied from simple account,
it should have.
They're executing permission as well.
Also,
create false enter boom.
It actually through an error message right away.
Perfect.
I want you to have that experience as well,
because,
um you will be troubleshooting,
um,
ever messages while you are creating scripts as well.
So anyway,
it's his unexpected end off filed is,
um,
while looking for matching ah,
back tick and coat.
And it's a line seven to what I would do is I'll go straight into the file,
create falls,
and I'll go into Line seven by putting calling seven Is coming right here.
Ah,
you see,
It is it has this thing I don't want to take.
That's why I was giving no,
sir.
Now let's run it.
Create falls,
Bingle.
It came back when you have command that comes back and give you a prom back without
throwing any error message What it means the script ran successfully.
Now let's verify if it ran.
Let's do ls minus.
Lt are and you will see right here.
It created 10 files.
Awesome.
Perfect.
Okay,
now let's move on to the next and next grip.
I'll just do copy,
create falls.
And this time I'll do create falls with input and and put Sorry,
Um,
stands for I p.
I want to do it.
So I will do and oh,
the I create Um you know what?
Um,
I will change it.
I don't want use myself and out.
Instead of that,
I will do,
user and put and now create falls Dash using what I'm going to do here is who's bash and
let's skidded off all of that And now I want a user to tell me how many files they want.
This is the third script it says right here,
create multiple followers user input.
So,
user,
we the script will ask users how many files you want to create and a nail say's how many?
What's the name of the files that you want to create?
So let's do that echo.
How many files do you want and I want to come on the script to read that,
um,
response.
And that is T for Total.
It's just that echo.
Just put a empty line.
Then I want to throw another question at the user,
and I'm going to say police and her that star name files.
So the file names if you want the file names destroyed with Imran and please enter em.
Right,
read and just number one,
not number.
Just a variable now.
Four I in again eyes variable.
Now I want to put sequence here.
Put dollar sequence one through.
Okay,
so this is going to What is going to do is this is going to put this variable,
which is the sequence inside the variable I and the sequence is going to be the number off
files.
So the reason I'm putting sequence here,
not one through That's a dollar to you.
Probably thinking,
Hey,
Imron,
why didn't you pick?
Let's say not dot like this.
This is something.
If you have think off that then I would say you are right on the right track,
but and then you have specimen.
You have to specify the variable which is dollar t.
Then you cannot use one dot dot dot and the variable because one dot dot only works with
number or interview.
So in order for it to work,
you have to put a new thing called sequence one through that variable,
which is specified by the user.
It's just That's how it is.
You know,
that's what some people says.
It is what it is.
Okay,
now that is done.
Do what?
Come on.
My cursor is stuck.
Looks like hopes my network went down.
I don't know why,
but anyway,
I am going to copy this so I don't lose my work.
I'll go into my machine,
verify the i p.
And you see,
the i p is gone.
I don't know what happened,
but anyway,
all just free store my network.
This is just a command to restore.
Um,
you could just fast forward it.
If you don't want to know,
I'll just log back into my party session once the session comes back up,
uh,
has restarted.
Now let's see if I got an I p.
Yes,
I got it.
I p no,
I'm just gonna do right here.
Restart session.
It has restarted.
Okay,
so now I'm gonna go back into my PS Drake tree and my script that I was working on Isis
found a swap while named this because,
you know,
my I lost my ah session,
and it still has that dot swap file open.
So it's his read.
Only added anyway,
recover quit and aboard all state record and enter.
Yes,
it has recovered.
So let me just quickly save it and make sure it does save it.
Um,
at it.
Anyway,
you know,
that's where we left off.
Now we're going to do is do touch.
And so touch n,
which is the name of the file dot dollar I,
which is the number that specified by the user.
Done.
That's pretty much it to save it.
This cat,
it is there now let's run it.
Create files,
user.
I p no,
it's asking me the question.
How many files you want?
I want this five files.
Please enter the start name off the falls this time.
I'll just put I am are just 1st 3 initial off my name because I already have reports in
there.
So And when you do ls minus.
Lt are.
You'll see it created file files with my name.
I am our initials.
And that's how you give that option to the users.
If the users are not very friendly with the command line,
then you could create a script for them and they will run it.
And there it'll create the script for you.
Next.
Moving on the another script that I wanted to do is to a sign,
right,
permission to the files.
So now you notice that I have created these files and I wanted to give,
Let's say right,
permission toe every one of them.
So of course you could do that.
C h m o D a right,
and just do imron and then hit this aspirational Assign it.
But what if you have different names,
then you have to do one by one.
Or you could actually make a mistake while you're working on.
So it's better you create a script,
create a script.
I'll name it a sign.
Permission?
I don't want to do that again.
Object,
Right?
It's all just create piles and a sign Save time.
Sign permissions.
Okay,
so now for I in Imron to echo a signing,
right permissions to dollar I that's to do is execute this $2 I and sleep one.
So it will do one at a time and done.
Okay,
So basically,
what is going to do is gonna look for all the files that has imron dot asterisk.
And then it's going to do echo assigning by permission to all those files.
And then it's gonna actually sign those permission one by one.
That's run it.
Assigning right permission to Imron one Imron 10 Imron 234 How many we have You have 10
right?
That's the one we created in my previous script.
So let's verify.
Yes,
There you go.
So it has signed all the write permissions.
Did it give right or execute Herbal?
We give executed.
But anyway,
you understand what I'm trying to do,
right?
So you could do instead of decks you could just put and even moving on to our last script
for four loop.
I want you to keep doing four loops or you'll get used to it.
The next one I want toe assign write permissions who filed with total time.
It will take if it's gonna take,
um,
10 seconds And I want to know,
the visit to tell me hey is gonna take that much time.
So I'm gonna use the same script this time I'm gonna just of the Eid assigned permission
script.
I'll come back right here.
And this time I'll put right here.
Ellis minus l Oh,
no.
You know what,
total?
Let's assign a variable.
When you sign a variable,
you equal and then tick,
which is right above the tab.
And the variable starts with Ellis my cell Imron,
Asterix!
And then how many files we have?
This is going to give us the total number of followers that starts with Imron.
Okay,
so now go.
It will take total seconds to a sign.
Permissions and the rest I'm gonna leave out as is I'm not changing anything,
so But this time I'm just gonna change update this one.
Look,
all I did is I am telling the user that you when you run this script,
the script will take this much time to complete is just like as if you are installing a
software and the software tells you that it will take that much time.
Took finished insulation and I am putting creating variable and inside the variable.
I'm putting this command and that command is going to do is it's gonna drawn at s minus L
Imran Asteroid W c minus l.
So what exactly that does.
So this commandment you do ls minus l and then you run it.
It will give you the total number of files that matches in Rhonda Asterix.
So basically,
I'm saying since we have sleep here,
So if there are 10 files and is going to sleep 10 times,
then it's gonna take 10 seconds.
So let's do a sign commission.
See?
It says right here it will take 10 seconds to assign permissions because the heart 10 files
.
Okay,
so now let's check right.
Permission and you see,
every fall that has Imran has the right permission.
So these are a few examples off creating these four loops scripts.
Try them,
try them again and again,
and you will become a very,
very skilled and four loop.
If you try all of the's scripts